some of Idaho's earliest history begins
around Bonners Ferry Idaho's gateway
community on the Canadian border
Explorer David Thompson ventured through
here in 1808 then the discovery of gold
brought thousands more pioneers they
used the Kootenai tribes wild horse
trail now a Scenic Byway as their road
to a brighter future
the wild horse trail is one of the main
routes through and people who would went
up there to seek their fortune and those
who didn't came back down through and
started seeing other opportunities here
the Kootenai River rich farmland thick
timber and the mines brought quick
change to this wilderness this strange
looking contraption provided the first
electrical power for the area it's a
Pelton wheel turbine invented by Lester
Pelton in the 1870s even in hard times
life here was pretty good and then even
in the Depression era people who were
blown out of Kansas found boundary
County to be a godsend they came here
and cut over snow plan they bought real
cheap and started their life over here
just a few minutes from downtown Bonners
Ferry you'll find a spectacular place
called the Kootenai National Wildlife
Refuge
it's a 2,700 acre habitat for a variety
of wildlife including bald eagles elk
deer moose and all sorts of migratory
waterfowl drive up the mountainside and
just sit for a while words can't
describe the beauty and the peaceful
feel people here are proud to have been
officially proclaimed Idaho's
friendliest city wander into the art
families under the Sun shop and you'll
know why
our genuine genuine niceness you know
everybody knows everybody here and
usually when people come to town they
feel like they can sit out and they know
on - yeah we treat people like like
family all we know and you really can
find everything under the Sun and here
an eclectic mix gadgets clothing mostly
locally crafted items on organic Bistro
a good wine selection and of course the
Red Rooster coffee company Jack Young
former vlogger does the roasting himself
and ask him to explain that red rooster
named a few minutes south of town is
another quaint little place these
warrants temps have welcomed people to
the neighbors general store since 1893
it's sort of an old-fashioned number the
Sun saves folks living or recreative out
here from having to drive eight miles
into town I have the farm across the
street from is here and and I get the
some parts out of here such as
electrical plumbing my kids fish who
come over and get the fish and equipment
it's nice it's nice to have here you
know I enjoy it one stop shop that's why
they did
and if you hang around for a few minutes
are likely to find yourself in a
conversation with somebody about what's
going on around here today what happened
here a hundred years ago it's all part
of that friendly a city designation I
mentioned earlier check out North
Idaho's accommodations and things to see
and do on visit North Idaho calm and
visit all of Idaho and visit Idaho or
visit scenic Ida
you